all right what is up guys karma medic
here and welcome back to another dose
I'm really excited about today's video
I'm gonna be reviewing meta mais
personal statement course writer I'm
also going to be reviewing their
personal statement review service and
I'm really excited to show it to you
guys because I think it's gonna be very
beneficial when it comes to writing down
personal statement and of course a big
THANK YOU to mattify for sponsoring
today's video I'm really happy to work
with them to show you guys a service
that I think will be very useful I'm
gonna go through all the different
features show you guys how it works
so that you guys can decide if it's
something that's gonna be beneficial for
you now right before we jump into the
video I got this glass jar and I filled
it with M&Ms of the same color as the
caramel medic logo I did that to
commemorate our 1k subscriber goal so I
showed this to you guys on my Instagram
and I asked you to guess how many M&Ms
were in this jar somebody actually
guessed it right then it appears that
they've deleted that comment you guys
want to guess how many M&Ms are in this
jar I'll shout you out in the next video
so there's two services that metafile
offers when it comes to personal
statements one is the personal statement
writer course and the other one is the
reviewing of your actual personal
statement for the personal statement
review service I'm actually gonna submit
my own personal statement that I wrote
last year
and I'm gonna have the professional
markers market and give me feedback not
gonna lie I'm pretty nervous but
hopefully comes back positive and we can
work through the comments together for
now let's start with the personal
statement writer course so I know when
it comes to writing the personal
statement a lot of people are really
unsure of where to start a lot of people
are just not sure if what they've
written is good or if their draft is
good having a reference to get some
feedback off of can be extremely useful
what I really like about the mattify
course writer is that it breaks down the
personal statement into six easy
sections and it goes through each one of
those sections in detail it gives you
advice it gives you examples and it
gives you a video and then all those
things should help you to easily write
that part of your personal statement and
you can bring it all together in the end
let's jump to my computer so you guys
can see what I'm talking about
alright guys so now I'm on the computer
and you should be able to see my screen
if we log in to the personal statement
write your course this is what you're
greeted with you can see here on the
left the six sections that I told you it
breaks the personal statement down into
so under each of these six sections on
the left you have a couple of components
you have the advice section and you have
a video included there as well you have
examples which we'll come to in a sec
and then you have this text box here so
while you're reading all the advice in
the examples if something inspires you
you can start to build out and write
your
statement in this text box for each of
these sections we have advice and this
usually tells you what it is that you
should be thinking about when writing
this section of your personal statement
some of the ways that other people have
structured their personal statement some
of the things that other students might
have talked about and you can read
through this here for example for why
medicine it talks about how some
students prefer to structure their
personal statement around personal
family or friend illness academic
interest empathy there's of course more
than one way to write your personal
statement this gives you a couple of
ideas for you to get started off of to
build out your own ideas from the good
reflection should include idea when how
and why is similar to what I talked
about interviews with the star the
situation task assessment or action and
result or reflection now if you guys
thought that this advice wasn't enough
to get you sparked and motivated and
inspired to start writing your own
personal statement there's an example
section can you believe this not one not
two but six different examples of how to
write this part of the personal
statement honestly this for me is
invaluable I wish that I had someone
else's personal statement to build off
of I'm sure that would have helped me so
much obviously you don't want to copy
anything that's here you don't even want
to paraphrase anything that's here but
the great thing about this is it gives
you so many different ideas for you to
build off of after reading all these
different examples and all the advice
you should definitely be inspired to
think about your own experiences and
your own reasons for studying medicine
and how you can start to build those out
in the form of a personal statement
there's also a video tutorial to sort of
help tie everything together I've muted
it here so that it doesn't shout at us
once you've read through the advice and
examples you can start to write here you
can build out your part of the personal
statements that you can have all the
different sections saved and then
eventually you can bring them all
together
how much does all this cost let's see
I'm gonna go to Google Chrome
medified I'll code or UK hit that
personal statement writer section I'm
gonna scroll down pricing just 10 pounds
will grant you access to the personal
statement writer 10 pounds that's the
cost of three cups of coffee in London
for me do you honestly can't go wrong
this has so much value in it alright I
hope that gives you guys a good idea of
what the personal statement rights our
course is like hopefully you can decide
for yourself if you think it's valuable
for you and now for part two more
mattifies personal statement review
service may actually mark your personal
statement based on eight different
categories which you can see here
but this is exactly how schools are
gonna mark your personal statements
they're gonna look at these eight things
on their rubric and see if it fits your
personal statement almost all medical
schools will stay very openly what their
rubric is and what it is that they're
looking for in personal statements from
their applicants for example let's take
a look at King's College London so I
have this link over here you guys can
find it by just going over it to the KCl
web page you're doing some googling this
is all public information and really you
should do lots and lots of research when
you're writing your personal statement
when you're applying to medical schools
to make sure that your application best
fits the schools that you're applying to
your personal statements one of many
factors blah blah
we're looking for evidence of
appropriate commitment - and realistic
appreciation of you guys know I always
mention that academic physical and
emotional demands of a medicine program
and career they expect you to have
undertaken some work experience and had
maybe some observation in a medical
setting if this is not possible we look
for evidence that you worked in a
setting where you can interact with the
general public
eg in a pharmacy check our restaurant
which I talked about in my work
experience video as well links somewhere
here so look you guys can read this for
yourself in your own time but Kings open
these dates all the things that they're
looking for in the personal statement so
when you're writing your personal
statement if you want to apply to King's
you might want to have a look at this
this piece of information over here
draft one has been submitted and this
statement has been reviewed I can click
to see the feedback so let's see what
they had to say
here's cost it's okay oh that's right
that's right all right thank God I was
worried for a little bit but this is
good this is my first time reading this
feedback by the way so we're gonna go
through it together
first things first total score 91% that
sounds really good to me I'm happy about
that use of English is an a thank God it
better be it was edited multiple times
by my twin sister and then my girlfriend
as well who are both lawyers category
breakdown okay so I can see the average
metafile user in gray and then my score
in green for each of these sections cool
so it seems that I'm well above the
average in all the sections which is
awesome and I guess now let's take a
look at each part individually so let's
start with commitment to medicine valid
reasons to study medicine enthusiasm for
medicine so how the student came to
their career choice demonstrating
interest in medicine my score 80%
and this okay so this is reviewer number
one this is reviewer number two ooh we
were number two didn't think I had a lot
of motivation to study medicine all
right I see your reviewer number two I
see you looking at work experience I got
too 90s which is great because I really
did quite a lot of work experience I had
shadowed two surgeons I had worked in
three Hospital laboratories and happy
the work experience was enough evidence
of reflection okay 90 percent on a
hundred percent that's great like I said
in my interview videos and in my
personal statement videos go watch them
I'll have them linked in the description
somewhere on the screen here you have to
have to have to reflect the most
important part of any story or any work
experience that you talk about is your
reflection what you learned what you
took from it all of that good stuff okay
it looks like we have a couple of
comments here already your introductions
where you're trying to grab the
admissions tutors and make your case as
to what attracts you to medicine that
makes you a good candidate it should be
concise and explicitly state what your
motivations are you write here's the
quote while the my altruistic character
has always been an instinctual part of
me the decision to pursue a medical
career was reached after careful
consideration and in-depth exploration
of what such a career entails true this
is good because you demonstrated you
have taken into consideration the
details of a career in medicine we
suggest that you are aware of both the
rewarding and demanding nature of this
career however this is a rather short
introduction definitely true which
doesn't highlight specifically why you
wish to study medicine you later write
both of these experiences motivated me
beyond doubt to pursue medicine as my
career it is good that your work
experience helped to confirm your
interest in medicine as a career but you
should try to be explicitly clear as to
where your interest in medicine first
begun alright guys take notes have your
pen and paper out write this down right
here later in your statement you write I
discovered the root of my passion for
medicine by providing comfort and care
to patients and the absence of their
loved ones and as well as when they were
lucky to ask for a company this is
excellent because you have highlighted
where your passion for medicine stems
from however it's important that you
discuss this in your opening paragraph
take notes boys and girls
no number two all right let's move on to
work experience ideally you should
dedicate one paragraph to your work
experience and this should come straight
after your introduction
okay I like when you wrote by observing
medical staff in the hospital blah blah
blah understood the nature of a career
as a physician noting the necessity of
interest staff collaboration this is
good because you've highlighted what you
learned what you learned from these
observations to improve
this you could link the point regarding
intercept collaboration to the
multiplayer and dissing area team and
discuss the importance of this team for
the effective care of patient care
enough that's good feedback to know that
that didn't quite come across but that
was my original intention it is great
that you discussed your work experience
in a secondary care setting if you've
completed any work experience in a
primary care setting you should also
include this so like I said in my work
experience video you want to try and
accumulate as much work experience as
you can in as many different settings as
you can and here we go it's true
evidence of reflection but reflection is
one of the hallmarks of a good personal
statement in particular you must reflect
on what you observed during your work
experience as well as what you've
learned during your studies and in your
volunteering activities considering how
your experiences will prepare you to be
a medical student on doctor writing
about a select few experiences and
backing them up with high quality
reflections it's better than writing
about many experiences with only
superficial reflections I totally agree
you show evidence of good reflection
when you write I gained an appreciation
of what it means to study medicine by
performing experiments in lab and
learning key concepts this is good
because instead of just writing what you
did during your time at U of T you've
highlighted what you learn from this and
it is excellent that you link this to
gaining an insight into studying
medicine great overall you're
demonstrating excellent ability to
reflect throughout your statement well
done thank your viewers one and two
appreciate the kind words professional
qualities evidence of transferable
skills demonstrating your aptitude for
medicine academic achievements 100% the
leadership teamwork and communication
eighty and 70% work-life balance 90%
evidence of empathy 85% average academic
achievements academic tutors reading a
person I'm out looking for evidence that
you're willing to go beyond the scope of
your curriculum and show a willingness
and eagerness to learn I like when you
write develop my critical thinking and
scientific writing skills as well as my
ability to analyze and critique
scientific literature many candidates
list what modules they completed for
their grades or their project which is
ineffective and a waste of characters
what you do here is excellent thank you
you've collected upon your previous
degree and the way that you link this to
you the skills you gained is brilliant
discussing a particular field of
medicine which interests you always
scores high marks with admissions tutors
so it is good when you write off
particular interest to me is the rapidly
expanding research on the microbiome
which I did a little bit of for my
research this summer so I guess it
came true leadership teamwork and
communication are three fundamental
attributes a doctor must process you
write being in charge of designing and
testing fluorescence detection platform
for in-space biological research
demanded decisive leadership clear
communication and effective coordination
you could improve this by ensuring that
you give two different examples
demonstrate times we were able to okay I
then demonstrate my teamwork skills by
talking about basketball to improve here
you could link this back to the
importance of teamwork skills in
medicine 100% agree I sort of wrote this
just to squeeze it in there to talk
about a little bit of the activities
that I enjoy doing outside of school
reflecting on that a little bit more and
linking it to previous parts of my
personal statement I think would have
definitely be a good idea work-life
balance medicine is both a course and a
career is strenuous therefore the
ability to relax is vital it's
imperative the dempster they have a
healthy work-life bonds it's great to
see the of hobbies and interests outside
of medicine when you write my demanding
academic life is bounced through filming
and editing lifestyle videos have
gathered over 5500 views Wow
I was very proud of my other channel
where I had a total of five thousand
five hundred views
Wow come a come a long way on YouTube
down anyway evidence of empathy empathy
is one of the key attributes you must
show that you possess in your personal
statement remember empathy is shown when
somebody takes time to listen to a
patient and tries to understand their
point of view here I wrote during rounds
I spent time building relationships by
empathizing with patients of all ages
and various cultural backgrounds I
discovered the root of my passion for
medicine by providing comfort and care
to patients in the absence of their
loved ones as well as when they were
reluctant to ask for accompany it would
be even better if you gave a specific
example the time you were talking to a
patient so that's originally what I had
but I was taking up so many characters
that I decided to cut it in the end and
give this a slightly more generalized
statement conclusion the good conclusion
should be about three to four lines
don't bring any new ideas into your
statement instead you should summarize
with key points that you would like your
tutors to remember you have done exactly
this awesome my strong involvement in
the medical field and deep scientific
interest have built a solid foundation
upon which I can continue serving the
community through my career as a
physician I like how you sell yourself
there using your strengths and previous
experiences as examples you could also
demonstrate why you're a suitable
candidate by using the rule of threes
use of English
ay-ay-ay the structure of your statement
is generally good enough fair enough fun
I'm not that great with structure you
should always use the English spelling
with an S rather than with a Zed na come
on
Zed is my favorite does anyone else uses
Zed instead of an S final comments
overall this is an excellent personal
statement your reflect brilliantly upon
your work experience and discuss how
your undergraduate degree will help
support you through a career in medicine
well done and best of luck awesome so
that was a lot of feedback this video is
gonna be a lot longer and I thought it
would be that was really detailed they
went in on every single aspect and gave
me a lot feedback they've really gone
into a lot of detail more than I
expected they would to be honest so how
much does all this cost should say
somewhere down here yeah so at the time
of recording this video there's an
early-bird rate of 65 pounds I guess
that's gonna change to 90 pounds when
the earlybird rate disappears and then
once they've sent you the first draft
you can get a reira view for 45 pounds I
realized that this is a little bit more
on the premium side but genuinely I'll
say what I've always said to anyone
who's asked me if they should invest in
UK can't question banks or books or
Bheema courses or whatever if you're
gonna invest in something that helps you
get into medical school in the future
and that helps give you an advantage
gives you an edge then I would say do it
an investment now sixty-five pounds here
is so minuscule compared to the fact
that you're actually gonna be in medical
school I genuinely believe that if you
can afford it and it's not gonna break
the bank that it is going to be worth it
I hope that gives you guys a good idea
of what the medified personal statement
course rights are and then review
services like hopefully I've given you
enough information that you can make
own informed decision about whether you
think any of these services are good for
you if you guys liked this video
definitely leave a like subscribe to my
channel and I'll see you guys all in the
next one next Thursday peace